# SuperCollider Prototypes
This folder contains a few prototypes for different possible interactions and sound options we can explore in this project. Some of the prototypes contain rough, simple widgets; some don't.  

## Dependencies
To be able to interact with the programs in this repository, you need to install SuperCollider first, which is pretty easy to do. Just: 
    1. Go to the SuperCollider [website](https://supercollider.github.io)
    2. Download the latest version of SuperCollider
    3. Install it in your /Applications folder

### Note
So far, this repository is only configured to function with MacOS. I'm going to set it up for Linux too if any one is interested. Windows...not so much. 

## How does it work?

Each of the prototypes actually exist as `.scd` files withni the `src/` directory. Each of these prototypes is associated with a script in the `sc-prototypes` directory, which is set to behave like an executable. As a result, assumging that SuperCollider has been correctly downloaded and installed onto the system, you can interact with each prototype by calling on these scripts; this can be done either by double-clicking on them as if they were an application or by invokving them in the terminal. If you are double-clicking on them, do not be concerned if a new terminal window opens. That is normal. These are bash scripts after all, not actual applications. 

## _new-proto
The exception to this rule is the script called `_new-proto`, which is not part of a prototype but is taked with generating prototypes. It does this by creating two files: (1) a top-level bash script that runs a `.scd` file using the `sclang` executable installed on the system (only MacOS is supported for now) and (2) the `.scd` file in the `src/` directory. I wrote `_new-proto` so that you can easily contribute your own prototypes if you want. 

## Prototype framework
Not only does the `_new-proto` script generate relevant files for simply running a prototype either from the terminal or by double-clicking, it also creates them in a specific way that allows them to be simple while incorporating shared resources and server configuration options, which can be found in `src/setup.scd`. Therefore, within each pre-configured `.scd` file generated by `_new-proto`, you shoud define all relevant sclang code as the body of a function I have set up called "main." This function is then evaluated in `setup.scd` *after* the configuration has occurred and the server has booted.

# On each prototype 
I'll briefly explain the premise of each prototype

## Ambience 1 
This prototype imagines a situation in which spheres can be dropped in the AR environment and possibly manipulated. It's just a simple interaction where users can build-up, move-about, and tear-down their environment. 

In the prototype, a window is created. You can place circles on it by clicking; these circles are associated with a sound process. You can pan the sound from each circle left and right by dragging the circle left and right across the window. If you drag it out of the bounds of the window, the circle is destroyed and the sound will eventually stop. 

### Some things to consider 

Are the long, pleasing, pad-style ambiences useful for our purposes here? And are we still considering a case where that kind of uncurated, customizable user-interaction is still possible?

## Ambience 2 
This protoype is a variation of Ambience 1 except that in order to play sounds you must click on the pre-established circles. In this prototype, you cannot create circles. Instead, they've been randomly created and assigned a random note. Moreover, unlike the previous prototype, this one features sounds with more percussive attacks, creating a kind of pseudo drum machine. 

### Some things to consider
This prototype imagines a more instrumental approach to the project, namely one where users can invoke sounds and are fully in control of the timing of the soundscape, even if they are not in control of other parameters such as the timbre or frequency of each node. 

...do we like that? 

## Ambience 3 
This prototype also features pre-rendered circles in a window that automatically opens. However, you cannot interact with the cirlces in any way. Furthermore, unlike its predecessors, the panning of the sounds no longer corresponds with left right but with top and bottom. 

I intended for this prototype to help simulate the experience of walking by singing nodes, creating a physical mixing effect where the farther you got from each of the cirlce nodes the quieter or more occluded their sounds became. This is going to be the experience of the users, so I figured I would experiment with it in this prototyping framework. 

That said, the solution for implementing this that came to mind involved creating a dynamic sprite or other object, which ray-traces to each of the nodes in order to calculate distance...and my linear algebra is not exactly up to snuff at the moment. So, instead of implementing the idea, I'm just kind of writing about it. 

The spirit of this prototype (not its implementation) I think is closest to what we're aiming at. 

### Things to consider
You know...good? Bad? Ugly? 

## Ambience 4 
This is basically the script I used to generate some of the assets I submitted earlier. I just figured I would include it here if anyone wanted it. There is no GUI associated with it, so don't be surprised when nothing happens. It will just play and play and play infinitely until you stop it. 

### Thigns to consider
There is nothing more to consider

## Minutia 1 
This is the start of an idea for a different kind of sound targeting a type of interaction similar to Ambience 3, namely one where the user explores a sound world with their body but isn't necessarily interacting with it directly. In other words, they are not in control of what sounds happen where and when (and how).

This alternative mode leads to a kind of an exploratory style of interaction. In an attempt to lean into that, this first minutia concept, which itself should stil be considered under active development, thinks about creating small, strange, and off-to-the-side sounds, sounds that one has to approach with a kind of open-minded curiosity maybe. As a result, the physical interaction mixed with these kind of insectoid sonic processes creates a different style of mental intervention (or so I'm randomly hypothesizing) -- not one where your mind is changed for you or where you expect to have it changed for you by soothing noises mixed with calming movement. Rather, here, a different kind of engagement occurs focusing on observation and non-judgemental evaluation. The point is not to feel better but simply to move and observe. At least that was the initial thought. 

There is only one sound process here. As I develop the concept, I would like to build out a couple of similar ones and then mush them together a la Ambience 3. 

In retrospect, this type of interaction is spiritually indebted to the Rainforest pieces of David Tudor, in which strange sound objects are set up and dangled from a ceiling, and users walk around and amongst them, creating and exploring their own subjective soundworlds. Still, while it is easy to draw interpretive inferences from the title Rainforest, Tudor famously said that his pieces bearing this name were not actually inspired by anything to do with Rainforests. Instead, he just liked the name. 

### Things to consider... 
Quiet, small sounds emphasizing exploration as opposed to longer soothing sounds emphasizing immersion. Exploration and immersion don't have to be mutually exclusive, as I've just implied, of course. In fact, they often go hand-in-hand. Still, it feels like there is some sort of dichotomy between the kind of more passive style of immersion (i.e. "You are being calmed down approach") and a somewhat altnerative mode (i.e. "Regardless of what you had going on before, look at this but think what you want.").

